I started my software career as an entry level programmer with tata, where I was responsible for understanding designs and writing software for a banking application. Then I moved to another project writing software for a Latin American branch of a pharma company. I did very well and was sent to many countries in Latin America to implement the software after making local modifications for taxes and invoicing. I even interacted with SMEs in Spanish at Caracas to got requirements. After this I worked on some Y2K projects and moved on to project management. I was responsible for mentoring junior programmers and ensuring the success of my projects by being responsible for quality, schedule and cost. I was also part of the qa team that occasionally participated in qa process audits. My project was audited once for an iso audit and the auditors liked the work I had done auditing other projects.

Then I moved to NTT Data and worked briefly as a project manager in California at Countrywide Home Loans. I helped get more business for my company by streamlining processes, doing pilot projects to demonstrate our capabilities and by working with product managers to brainstorm ideas. I moved to Utah to project manage another project. Here I transitioned into a Java web developer after getting Sun certifications. Managing projects did not excite me any longer. I was responsible for understanding designs, programming and unit testing. As I got better at web development, I moved on to also doing coder reviews technical designs and technical design reviews. I used concurrency to significantly improve performance of a scheduled job. In another instance I introduced job logging that later turned out to be very useful in troubleshooting unforeseen problems like communication failures and environment issues. I helped the company produce better software by communicating technical designs using UML.

At master control I worked on developing rest apis, fixing issues, estimating work, developing features and writing unit tests. I did use my solution modeling skills to communicate my ideas and ensure everybody on my team was on the same page. I was able to quickly pick up the parts of the technology stack that I did not have prior experience on. I proposed a solution to a problem where we needed to search for something in the database. I proposed a solution that would speed up the search while minimizing access to the database.

